ETC Course: 8. ETC Monetary Policy (#1075)
ethereumclassic/ethereumclassic.github.io: content/blog/2023-02-09-ethereum-classic-course-8-ethereum-classics-monetary-policy/index.md

This means that in every era, miners would get paid 20% less as follows:

- Era 1, from block 1 to 5,000,000: 5 ETC
- Era 2, from block 5,000,001 to 10,000,000: 4 ETC
- Era 3, from block 10,000,001 to 15,000,000: 3.20 ETC
- Era 4, from block 15,000,001 to 20,000,000: 2.56 ETC (current era)...

...and so on until block rewards will diminish completely by approximately the year 2140.

## 3. Block Rewards

![Block rewards started at 5 and are discounted from there.](./4.png)

Block rewards are the method of issuing the money fairly and of compensating miners to secure the network by producing blocks.

It is described as “fair” because the coins are being issued and paid to people and entities who actually perform work for the network. Miners secure the network because their work imposes an enormous cost for any bad actors to tamper with the blockchain.

Additionally, the fact that the currency is issued only after performing significant work makes it sound money as it is unforgeably costly and scarce.

Block frequency and block rewards are the key components of the monetary policy because they determine the timing of the issuance, thus inflation rate and stock-to-flow ratio.

> For example, as the ETC blocks are produced every 15 seconds on average, and the current block rewards are 2.56 ETC, then, in this era, the rate of currency issuance is 5,382,144 per year. And, this rate of inflation will be reduced by 20% every 28 months.

Reviewer: Line 81: Remove unnecessary conjunction
```suggestion
For example, as the ETC blocks are produced every 15 seconds on average, and the current block rewards are 2.56 ETC, then, in this era, the rate of currency issuance is 5,382,144 per year. This rate of inflation will be reduced by 20% every 28 months.
```

## 4. Uncle Blocks

![There are, on average, 270,000 uncle blocks per era.](./5.png)

As Ethereum Classic produces blocks every 15 seconds, instead of every ten minutes as Bitcoin, there are instances in which more than one valid block is produced by miners at any given time. However, only one block per round may be permitted, so to prevent any disincentive that miners may have for producing extra blocks in vain, there is a payment for these stale blocks, also called “uncle blocks”.

> Since inception, there has been a rate of production of uncle blocks of more or less 5.4%, which is approximately 270,000 uncle blocks per era.

Reviewer: Line 898: Editorial rewrite
```suggestion
Since inception, uncle blocks are produced at the rate of more or less 5.4% of total blocks which equals approximately 270,000 uncle blocks per era.
```

Uncle blocks were paid 4.375 ETC/ETH in the first era, but that payment was lowered to 0.125 ETC when the monetary policy was changed, and will be discounted, together with the normal block rewards, by 20% every 5,000,000 blocks.

## 5. The Fifthening

![Fifth-ening means a discount of 20% or 1/5.](./6.png)

The event of the fifthening is celebrated by the ETC community every 28 months or 5,000,000 blocks and it happens on the date when the block of the next era is mined. 

For example, we are in the 4th era and the 5th era will start on block 20,000,001, which will happen sometime in August of 2024.

It is called the fifthening (fifth-ening) because the discount of 20% in each era is equivalent to one fifth of the block rewards and annual issuance.

The importance of the fifthening is that the annual supply rate is lowered, making ETC sounder money as time passes by. This soundness is reflected in both a lower annualized inflation rate and a higher stock-to-flow ratio.

## 6. Inflation Rate

![ETC projected inflation rate by era compared with other assets.](./7.png)

What is called the inflation rate is the rate of production or issuance of new currency per year. 

> When Ethereum Classic and Ethereum were one chain the annual rate of coin production was very high, at more than 14%, because the base was small and issuance was still high.

Reviewer: Line 111: Punctuation changes; Remove unn\ecessary prepositiom
```suggestion
When Ethereum Classic and Ethereum were one chain, the annual rate of coin production was very high, more than 14%, because the base was small and issuance was still high.
```

And, by the year 2036, in era 9, it will be close or lower than the real estate annual production rate.

![ETC inflation rate table by era.](./etc-inflation.png)

## 7. Supply Cap

![ETC supply cap will be between 199,000,000 and 210,700,000.](./9.png)

Given the eras of ETC every 5,000,000 blocks, the block rewards and frequencies mentioned above, the discounts per era, the average uncle block rate of 270,000 per era, and the fact that it is divisible by 0.000000000000000001 (1e-18), then the ETC maximum supply in all of its history will be in a range of between 199,000,000 to 210,700,000 ETC.

The lower number of 199,000,000 reflects the current average production of uncle blocks of 5.4%, but in the unlikely scenario that uncle blocks are produced 100% of the time, then the maximum supply would be 210,700,000.

This is why it is generally stated that ETC has a supply cap of 210,700,000, but it is very likely that it will be lower than that.

![ETC controlled supply chart: projected inflation and issuance.](./etc-capped-supply.png)

## 8. ETC’s Stock to Flow Ratio

![ETC projected stock-to-flow ratio by era compared to other assets.](./11.png)

> The stock-to-flow (S2F) ratio is a measure that is used to predict the value of commodities in the market, and is a very similar concept as inflation, but it is expressed as the current stock of a commodity divided by the new annual production or issuance.

Reviewer: Line 139: Eliminate run-on; Usage
```suggestion
Stock-to-flow (S2F) ratio is a measure that is used to predict the value of commodities in the market. It is a concept very similar to inflation expressed as the current stock of a commodity divided by the new annual production or issuance.
```
